# CellularAutomaton
Programming cellular automata to learn Haskell (2019 project)

## Run the project :

In the folder build run the following command :
```
./Main.exe
```

## Build the project :

In order to build the project, you need to install [Haskell](https://www.haskell.org/downloads/) :
- GHC to compile.
- cabal to install dependencies.
- Stack to have many module ready to use.

The project requires the following modules :
- System.Random
- Control.Concurrent
- System.Process

After installing all the dependencies, just run the make command[^1] :
```
make
```

## Explanation :

### Elementary cellular automaton :

It works like this : [Elementary cellular automaton](https://mathworld.wolfram.com/ElementaryCellularAutomaton.html).
You just need to enter the rule in decimal and the program will print some lines generated by the automaton.
The initial state is ``n/2 empty cells`` , ``1`` , ``n/2 empty cells``.

### 2D cellular automaton :

The 2d cellular automaton can't works like the Elementary one. 
Indeed, each cells pocess 8 neighbors instead of 2, so you need ``2^9`` bits to represent all the possible states for one cell. 
So instead, I chose a more simple representation of the rule which describe the state of each cells according to the number of living cells around it.
The rules are modelized by an array of length 8 representing the number of neighbors possible : each cell describe a life state (Dead, Alive or Born).
The default rule set is the Game of life one :
```
Dead, Dead, Alive, Born, Dead, Dead, Dead, Dead, Dead
```

[^1]: On Windows you need to install make via chocolatery.
